So time to work on the add place screen which is of course where we will fetch all the user data and
set up that new place that we want add.
Therefore this will actually be a stateful widget because we'll have text inputs there or a form in there,
we'll have inputs for the image and for the map in here,
so we'll definitely need to manage some temporary data here before we then use our great places model
to add a place here and therefore here, we'll have some local state and hence we need a stateful widget.
So let's name that add place screen
and as always, of course import material.dart
and now in here, I'll first of all give this a static const route name so that we can add this to the
routes table later, maybe /add-place, name is of course totally up to you
and now here in our state object in the build method, I want to return my form
so to say or the page which includes the form.
So we certainly need a scaffold widget here to have a nice page look, also add an appBar where we
can add a title, where we for example say add a new place, like this and then let's define a body and to
mix things up here,
I actually want to have the submit button below the form. So I'll start with a column here, to have two
widgets sit on top or above each other, not in the 3D space but from top to bottom on the device screen
and here, I for one want my form widget in the end or actually we can use a form for sure,
feel free to do so but we'll only have one text input, so I'll manage this manually.
So for now, I'll just render text here where I say user inputs because we'll add the different kind of
inputs we have for the image for the map and for the title later. Below that collection of user inputs
which we'll add in this place here, below that, I want to have a RaisedButton which we can use to submit
the form. So this will be a RaisedButton which should actually also include an icon and therefore, we
can use the special RaisedButton icon constructor which also gives us the RaisedButton but a RaisedButton
that contains both a label and an icon. The icon
I want to use here with the icon widget is the add icon,
so this plus icon, the label which has to be a widget can simply be add place and in addition, of course
we also need onPressed here which then triggers our submit function or our logic to submit to this place.
Now with this, let's make sure we can reach this screen by going to the main.dart file and there,
let's add a routes table, a map therefore and import our screen from add_place_screen.dart in the screens
folder and now in the route table, we can add an entry, AddPlaceScreen.routeName is the key and the
builder function which Flutter will automatically execute gets this context which Flutter provides
and there of course, I want to create a new add places screen widget, that is the widget that will then
be presented as the screen.
Now with that out of the way, we have a way of loading that, at least theoretically, now we need
to connect that to the plus button in the appBar of the places list screen.
So here when this gets pressed, I want to use the navigator of course, of context to then push a named
route, not push replace, I want to be able to go back.
So just push named and the route I want to push there is of course the add place route.
So we need to import that here as well to get access to the identifier, so import the add place screen
and then here we use AddPlaceScreen.routeName,
that's the name of the route I want I push. So with that, let's save all of that and start the app with
that set up on an emulator, I'll again use Android here but of course you can also test this on iOS.
Now on the main screen, we of course have our spinner but then we have this plus icon here in the app
bar and if we tap that, indeed we go to the add a new place screen and there, we have user inputs and the
button.
Now I actually want to have this button sit at the very end of the screen always.
So to achieve this we can go to add place and there on column, I want to add a main axis alignment because
the main axis of a column is from top to bottom which is set to spaceBetween.
Now this ensures that the button here is on the end of the screen.
In addition, I want to make sure that all items take the full width of the screen, so they're not
centered horizontally but they take the full width. We can do this with the cross axis alignment and
there with CrossAxisAlignment.stretch, this stretches the items along the cross axis which
for a column is from left to right.
So now the button here takes the full width, the text input would do that as well
but since I haven't set up any text alignment, it still has the alignment of being all the way on
the left,
which is fine because this is only a placeholder. So the button is now always and on the end here
but I want to have it set really on the end
and for this, we have to remove the drop shadow and this extra margin around it so to say and for this,
we can go to the RaisedButton and give it an elevation of 0 which removes the drop shadow
and if we do this and we save this, it loses its shadow which is good but there still is some margin around
it and to get rid of that, we can add another argument, the material tab target size,
it's basically a feature that ensures that you have a big space you can hit with your finger
and if we shrink that by setting it to MaterialTabTargetSize.shrinkWrap,
you get rid of that extra margin around the button.
So by setting this here, the button now really sits on the end of the screen which is the look I want
because I want to have all the inputs above that and have the button at the bottom here at all times.
So now with that, only remaining thing is that I want to give this button a color of theme of context accent
color,
so using the accent color I set up, with that we have the nice yellow button.
So that's the button,
what about the inputs?
Let's work on these next. For the inputs here, we want to replace this placeholder,
user inputs here with a list of all the inputs we have. For this, we could now add all the inputs
here, like a text field which allows the user to enter something and then inputs for the image and so on
but that would actually lead to a look
if I do that where this is all distributed across the entire screen because we have spaceBetween as
a main axis alignment on the overall column. You might want this but I actually want to have a look where
the button here always is at the end but the form above it or the inputs above it are not distributed
across the entire main axis but sit at the top and are simply distributed from top to bottom there.
So I don't want to take all the screen height at all cost,
I think that doesn't look that nice. So therefore, I'll actually create nested column in here and now
I'll follow a slightly different approach.
This column here can be wrapped by an expanded widget, so this column here is wrapped by expanded in
this outer column and therefore we can actually get rid of the main axis alignment because now thanks
to expanded, this first child in this column will take all the height it can get and only leave this
button as much height as it absolutely needs and therefore we'll automatically have the look where the
button is all the way at the end of the screen
and please keep in mind that this column is not scrollable, we didn't add a SingleChildScrollView,
so this button will always be on the screen
and this here will take all the remaining space on the screen, so screen height minus the button so to
say and therefore now, we'll have a nicer look where we have the same look as before
but any inputs we add now in this inner column will be nicely positioned from top to bottom and not
distributed across the entire height.
So here, this column however should be scrollable,
so let's wrap it with a widget and that should be a SingleChildScrollView because we might be on
a screen where this doesn't fit onto or into this expanded container because the expanded container
can only reserve that much space,
it can only reserve the space between appBar and button and that might not suffice for all the inputs,
especially in landscape mode.
So this should be scrollable and now in this inner column, we can add all the inputs we want to have.
I'll actually even wrap one more widget around that column and that will be the padding widget to
add some padding. Padding is again added with EdgeInsets and there, I'll add a padding in all directions
of 10, simply so that all the inputs don't directly sit on the edges of the device.
And now with this, we can add a text field and because I'm not using a form, I don't use a text form field
but a normal text field and we'll therefore have to manage the input manually of course and I'll give
this a decoration of input decoration where we can set a label text of title because this should
be the text input for entering a title.
Now since we have to manage this manually, I'll add my title controller which is a new text editing controller
here and I'll assign this of course to this text field.
So here to the controller argument, there I'll point at the title controller.
Now please note, since we don't have a form field here, we can't add a validator, so we can't leverage
this built-in validation. You can of course alter this to use a form instead,
you learned how that works in the forms module. In order to save some time,
I'll not add all that stuff here,
I'll just have a text field like this and leave out validation for this demo app. So we have the text
field here,
besides the text field, we of course also need inputs for the map and for the image.
Now I want start with the image,
so I'll first of all add a SizedBox here with a height of 10 let's say, to have some spacing between the
text field and the image input and now for the image input, I want to have a container which shows a preview
of the image we picked
and of course then I want to have a button,
let's say a FlatButton
which we can press to open the image picker or to open the device camera and I'll actually move
that into a separate widget
and for that, I'll add a widgets folder and in that widgets folder,
I'll add an image_input.dart file and of course you can name this input or this file whatever
you want.
Now this will also be a stateful widget here because we'll manage that preview in this widget here.
So I'll name this image
input and then simply import material.dart of course
and now in here, in the build method of this state, I want to output that preview and then next to
it, the button.
So I'll add a row here to have it sit next to each other horizontally and then my first child is a container
that should render this preview,
second child is that FlatButton here which we tap to open the image picker or the camera. Let's
start with the preview container,
I'll give it a width of 100 and the height of 100
and you can play around with these values to find values that fit your needs and that you like.
I'll give it a decoration, a BoxDecoration object therefore to set a border with border.all, give
it a width of 1 and a color of Colors.grey to have a nice border around that preview and then in there,
of course I need a child and that child should either be some text if we have no image yet or the
image. Therefore let's manage this image here in our state object, we can simply add a stored image and
that should be a file of course because now we're not working with network images but with real image
files, so we need to import dart:io to use the file type because we'll have an image which is of
type file in here.
So now we can check whether stored image is set, if stored image is not equal to null, then I want to render
my image preview, otherwise I'll render a text widget where we could say no image taken or anything like
that.
Now before I come back to rendering that image, I also want to add an alignment to the container to align
the child inside of the container and I'll want to align that directly in the center with alignment.center,
so it will be in the center both vertically and horizontally.
Now for the case that we have a file, then I want to create an image widget in there as a child
and we used image.network before and image.asset,
now we need image.file which allows us to create an image based on a file on our device, so that's exactly
what we'll have and Flutter will do all the heavy lifting of finding that file, parsing it and rendering
it as an image. So here, of course I want to point at my stored image that holds the file after all
and I'll set up a fit of
BoxFit.cover
and also make sure that we set a width here of let's say double infinity,
so that this widget here or this image here which is rendered actually takes the full width of the surrounding
container.
So this is now the
preview, now for the button.
Now actually, let's add a SizedBox in there with a width of let's say 10 to have some spacing between
the preview and the button and then the button should take all the remaining space in the row, so we can
wrap this with an expanded widget
and as you learned expanded, make sure that the child takes all the remaining space in that row
or column, in this case it's a row. I'll actually use FlatButton.icon,
so this special constructor to have a FlatButton which has both an icon and a label and the icon here
can be the camera icon because we'll open the camera,
so I guess that makes sense
and the label here will be a text widget where I say take picture.
The text color which I want to use will be taken from the theme and there, I want to use the primary
color and onPressed, the goal of course is to open the device camera.
Now before we do that, let's make sure we use our image input widget here in the add place screen widget,
So here instead of that container in FlatButton, I want to use that widget which we just created.
So let's add an import up there,
go to the widgets folder and import the image_input.dart file
and now with that import added there, down here below the SizedBox, I'll add image input as a widget.
Let's save this
and now we see this here and I actually also want to center this text here now that I see that.
So here in my no image taken dummy text, I want to add text align, textAlign.center because yes,
we do center the text widget here vertically and horizontally in the container but I always want
to center the text inside of its own container, its own box so to say. So let's add this centering here
so that we have this text here centered in all directions and we have this button here and now of course,
we need to make sure that this button can be pressed and you can of course also ramp up that width here
of the container if you wanted to, to have a bigger preview, whatever suits your needs,
maybe I'll go with 150 there,
yes.
So now the next goal is to make that button work, so that it actually does open the device camera and
allows us to take a picture and that of course is one of the core things of this module.